Orbit V3 (#1815)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/launch-orbit-chain/02-configure-your-chain/common-configurations/02-customizable-challenge-period.mdx

---
title: 'Customizable challenge period'
description: "Learn how to customize your Orbit chain's challenge period"
author: 'mahsamoosavi'
sme: 'mahsamoosavi'
content_type: how-to
---

> The challenge period defines the time frame during which state updates (assertions) submitted to a child chain remain open for scrutiny and potential challenges before they are finalized. This mechanism ensures that participants in the system—whether on a rollup or an AnyTrust Orbit chain—have the opportunity to verify the validity of state updates and raise challenges if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The challenge period defines the time frame during which state updates (assertions) submitted to the parent chain remain open for scrutiny and potential challenges before they are finalized. This mechanism ensures that participants in the system —whether on a rollup or an AnyTrust Orbit chain— have the opportunity to verify the validity of state updates and raise challenges if necessary.
```
Why explicitly mention "rollup or Anytrust"? If that clarification doesn't add value, we can maybe remove it (the text between '—').

> The length of the challenge period is measured in parent chain blocks, allowing for a predictable and flexible configuration regardless of the use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The length of the challenge period is measured in the parent chain notion of block.number, allowing for a predictable and flexible configuration regardless of the use case.
```
Or something similar. Saying "parent chain blocks" is not accurate, since L3s settling to Arbitrum chains will be measured by L1 block times.

Reviewer: Maybe it's a good idea to explicitly mention that scenario btw (L3s settling to Arbitrum)

> In addition to the main challenge period, an **extra challenge period** provides a buffer that allows for the resolution of any pending challenges after the main period ends. Together, these parameters form the foundation for balancing security and transaction finality.

Reviewer: I think "transaction finality" might be confusing in this context, since the reader might think that a transaction is not finalized until the state is confirmed on the parent chain. Maybe something like "confirmation of the chain's state" or something like that?

> ### Default challenge period and extra challenge period

Reviewer: I can't see the preview, but shouldn't these be h2 titles? `##`

> By default, the challenge period lasts approximately one week, corresponding to 45,818 blocks on the parent chain. This default is designed to provide sufficient time for validators to detect and challenge fraudulent assertions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the challenge period lasts approximately one week, corresponding to 45,818 blocks on the parent chain's notion of block.numer. This default is designed to provide sufficient time for validators to detect and challenge fraudulent assertions.
```
I'm not entirely happy with this, tbh 😅 . There's probably a better alternative, but I just want to flag that the current definition is not accurate.

> The extra challenge period, on the other hand, adds a buffer of 200 parent chain blocks (approximately 40 minutes). This ensures that any last-minute challenges or ongoing dispute resolution processes can be completed before the rollup finalizes its state.

Reviewer: Same here, it's parent chain's notion of block.number, or a probably better term. Also, the 40 minutes apply to chains settling to Arbitrum chains or Ethereum.

These default values are carefully chosen to balance security and performance for most rollup use cases. However, developers and Orbit chain owners may wish to customize these parameters to suit their specific requirements.

### Customizing the challenge period

#### Challenge period blocks

> The main challenge period is configured using the `confirmPeriodBlocks` parameter, which specifies the duration of the challenge window in terms of parent chain blocks. This parameter can be customized in two ways:

Reviewer: Same issue with "parent chain blocks"

1. **During deployment**: Developers can specify the desired value in the `confirmPeriodBlocks` field of the RollupCreator configuration when deploying the rollup.

> 2. **Post-deployment**: The rollup admin can update this value dynamically by calling the `Rollup.setConfirmPeriodBlocks(newValue)` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Post-deployment**: The chain owner can update this value dynamically by calling the `Rollup.setConfirmPeriodBlocks(newValue)` function.
```
Maybe? To be consistent with the language we use in other pages, not sure.

Reviewer 2: Agreed yea

For example, setting `confirmPeriodBlocks` to 30,000 blocks reduces the challenge period to approximately 4.5 days. This might be suitable for applications prioritizing faster finality, while increasing the value would extend the challenge period, enhancing security.

#### Extra challenge period blocks

The extra challenge period is governed by the `extraChallengeTimeBlocks` parameter, which defines the additional buffer duration after the main challenge period. This parameter ensures that any pending challenges are processed before the rollup state is finalized. Like the main challenge period, it can be customized in two ways:

1. **During deployment**: The value can be set in the `extraChallengeTimeBlocks` field of the RollupCreator configuration.
2. **Post-deployment**: The rollup admin can dynamically adjust the parameter using the `Rollup.setExtraChallengeTimeBlocks(newExtraTimeBlocks)` function. For example:

   ```solidity

>    RollupAdminLogic.setExtraChallengeTimeBlocks(300);

Reviewer: We can maybe provide a cast command here instead? wdyt?

Reviewer 2: it'd be more interactive yea, I'll add that

   ```

>    This would set the extra challenge period to 300 parent chain blocks.

Reviewer: Same issue with "parent chain blocks"

The default value of 200 blocks provides a short but sufficient buffer for most networks. However, developers may increase this value for applications that require additional time for dispute resolution or operate in environments with higher latency between the parent and child chain.

### Recommended values and best practices

For Orbit chaibs aligned with Arbitrum One's configuration, the recommended settings are:

> - **Challenge period blocks**: 45,818 parent chain blocks (approximately one week).

Reviewer: Here, and the next point, the same issue with "parent chain blocks"

- **Extra challenge period blocks**: 200 parent chain blocks (approximately 40 minutes).

These values offer a robust and balanced setup for most rollup use cases. Developers should consider their application’s requirements when adjusting these parameters:

> - **Shorter periods**: Suitable for use cases demanding faster transaction finality, such as high-frequency trading or gaming platforms.

Reviewer: Same problem here with "transaction finality". We should change that to something like "state confirmation" or similar.

Also, I don't think this is relevant for high-frequency tranding or gaming platforms. They can still operate as fast as they wish regardless of the challenge period configuration.

---
title: 'Customizable challenge period'
description: "Learn how to customize your Orbit chain's challenge period"
author: 'mahsamoosavi'
sme: 'mahsamoosavi'
content_type: how-to
---

The challenge period defines the time frame during which state updates (assertions) submitted to the parent chain remain open for scrutiny and potential challenges before they are finalized. This mechanism ensures that participants in the system have the opportunity to verify the validity of state updates and raise challenges if necessary.

> The length of the challenge period is measured based on the parent chain's notion of time, typically reflected in `block.number`. For L3s settling to Arbitrum chains, this period is determined by L1 block progression rather than Arbitrum's own blocks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The length of the challenge period is measured based on the parent chain's notion of time, typically reflected in `block.number`. For L3s settling to Arbitrum chains, this period is determined by L1 block progression rather than Arbitrum's (L2) blocks.
```

> In addition to the main challenge period, ** an extra challenge period ** provides a buffer to resolve any pending challenges after the main period ends. Together, these parameters help balance security and confirm the chain's state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the main challenge period, **an extra challenge period** provides a buffer to resolve any pending challenges after the main period ends. Together, these parameters help balance security and confirm the chain's state.
```
For some reason whitespaces where added here, removing the bold style.

> In addition to the main challenge period, ** an extra challenge period ** provides a buffer to resolve any pending challenges after the main period ends. Together, these parameters help balance security and confirm the chain's state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the main challenge period, **an extra challenge period** provides a buffer to resolve any pending challenges after the main period ends. Together, these parameters help balance security and confirm the chain's state.
```
For some reason whitespaces where added here, removing the bold style.

> In addition to the main challenge period, ** an extra challenge period ** provides a buffer to resolve any pending challenges after the main period ends. Together, these parameters help balance security and the confirmation of the chain's state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the main challenge period, ** an extra challenge period ** provides a buffer to resolve any pending challenges after the main period ends. Together, these parameters help balance security and confirm the chain's state.
```

## Default challenge period and extra challenge period

> By default, the challenge period lasts approximately one week, corresponding to the parent chain’s notion of block progression. This equates to roughly 45,818 L1 blocks for chains that settle to Ethereum. The default duration design is to provide sufficient time for validators to detect and challenge fraudulent assertions.

Reviewer: I think "parent chain's notion of block progression" might still be confusing. For an L3 chain, I'd think that Arbitrum's notion of block progression is measured in L2 blocks, not L1 blocks.

It's definitely tricky. Another solution I'm thinking about is that we lead the page with a section or admonition titled "How time is measured in challenges" and describe that chains settling to Ethereum or Arbitrum chains use `block.number` for all block calculations, which corespond to the chain's view of L1 block number.

Let me know what you think. We can also ask Gael and Pete in case they have a better idea.

Reviewer 3: I think the admonition makes sense, especially in the Orbit sections. I think trying to explain that within the text above may be confusing, so an admonition at the top (or even below this paragraph) would make more sense.

Reviewer 3: Added admonition in the latest commit

> By default, the challenge period lasts approximately one week, corresponding to the parent chain’s notion of block progression. This equates to roughly 45,818 L1 blocks for chains that settle to Ethereum. The default duration design is to provide sufficient time for validators to detect and challenge fraudulent assertions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the challenge period lasts approximately one week, corresponding to the parent chain’s notion of block progression. This equates to roughly 45,818 L1 blocks for chains that settle to Ethereum or an Arbitrum chain. The default duration design is to provide sufficient time for validators to detect and challenge fraudulent assertions.
```
Or something like that. Same issue in the paragraph below.

> By default, the challenge period lasts approximately one week, corresponding to the parent chain’s notion of block progression. For chains settling to Ethereum, this equates to roughly 45,818 L1 blocks. This default duration is designed to provide sufficient time for validators to detect and challenge fraudulent assertions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the challenge period lasts approximately one week, corresponding to the parent chain’s notion of block progression. This equates to roughly 45,818 L1 blocks for chains that settle to Ethereum. The default duration design is to provide sufficient time for validators to detect and challenge fraudulent assertions.
```

> On the other hand, the extra challenge period adds a buffer of 200 blocks based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression. For chains settling to Ethereum, this corresponds to approximately 40 minutes. This time ensures that any last-minute challenges or ongoing dispute resolution processes can be completed before the rollup finalizes its state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the other hand, the extra challenge period adds a buffer of 200 blocks based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression. For chains settling to Ethereum or an Arbitrum chain, this corresponds to approximately 40 minutes. This time ensures that any last-minute challenges or ongoing dispute resolution processes can be completed before the rollup finalizes its state.
```

> The extra challenge period, on the other hand, adds a buffer of 200 blocks based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression. For chains settling to Ethereum, this corresponds to approximately 40 minutes. This ensures that any last-minute challenges or ongoing dispute resolution processes can be completed before the rollup finalizes its state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The extra challenge period, on the other hand, adds a buffer of 200 blocks based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression. For chains settling to Ethereum, this corresponds to approximately 40 minutes. This time ensures that any last-minute challenges or ongoing dispute resolution processes can be completed before the rollup finalizes its state.
```

These default values are selected to carefully balance security and performance for most rollup use cases. However, developers and Orbit chain owners may wish to customize these parameters to suit their specific requirements.

## Customizing the challenge period

> #### Challenge period blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Challenge period blocks
```

> The main challenge period is configured using the `confirmPeriodBlocks` parameter, which specifies the duration of the challenge window based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression. This parameter can be customized in two ways:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The main challenge period configuration uses the `confirmPeriodBlocks` parameter, which specifies the duration of the challenge window based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression. This parameter can is customizable in two ways:
```

1. **During deployment**: Developers can specify the desired value in the `confirmPeriodBlocks` field of the RollupCreator configuration when deploying the rollup.
2. **Post-deployment**: The chain owner can update this value dynamically by calling the `Rollup.setConfirmPeriodBlocks(newValue)` function.

> For example, setting `confirmPeriodBlocks` to 30,000 blocks reduces the challenge period to approximately 4.5 days. This might be suitable for applications prioritizing faster state confirmation, while increasing the value would extend the challenge period, improving security.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, setting `confirmPeriodBlocks` to 30,000 blocks reduces the challenge period to approximately 4.5 days. This configuration might be suitable for applications prioritizing faster state confirmation, while increasing the value would extend the challenge period, improving security.
```

> #### Extra challenge period blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Extra challenge period blocks
```

> The extra challenge period is governed by the `extraChallengeTimeBlocks` parameter, which defines the additional buffer duration after the main challenge period. This ensures that any pending challenges are processed before the rollup state is finalized.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The extra challenge period is governable using the `extraChallengeTimeBlocks` parameter, which defines the additional buffer duration after the main challenge period. This period ensures that pending challenges are processed before the rollup state gets finalized.
```

> By default, the extra challenge period is set to **200 blocks**, providing a short but sufficient buffer for most networks. However, developers can increase this value for applications that require additional time for dispute resolution or operate in environments with higher latency between the parent and child chain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the extra challenge period is set to **200 blocks**, providing a short but sufficient buffer for most networks. However, developers can increase this value for applications requiring additional dispute resolution time or operate in environments with higher latency between the parent and child chain.
```

> Like the main challenge period, this parameter can be customized in two ways:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Like the main challenge period, this parameter can is customizable in two ways:
```

Reviewer 2: I'll change it to `Like the main challenge period, this parameter is customizable in two ways:`

Reviewer 3: works for me!

1. **During deployment**: The value can be set in the `extraChallengeTimeBlocks` field of the RollupCreator configuration.
2. **Post-deployment**: The chain owner can dynamically adjust the parameter using the `Rollup.setExtraChallengeTimeBlocks(newExtraTimeBlocks)` function. For example:

> For example, the following command can be used to update the extra challenge period to 300 blocks, based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, the following command can update the extra challenge period to 300 blocks based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression:
```

```shell
cast send <ROLLUP_ADMIN_ADDRESS> "setExtraChallengeTimeBlocks(uint256)" 300 \
  --rpc-url <RPC_URL> \
  --private-key <PRIVATE_KEY>
```

Replace:

`<ROLLUP_ADMIN_ADDRESS>` with the contract address of the rollup admin.
`<RPC_URL>` with the appropriate RPC endpoint.
`<PRIVATE_KEY>` with the private key of the authorized admin account (e.g., chain owner).

## Recommended values and best practices

For Orbit chains aligned with Arbitrum One's configuration, the recommended settings are:

- **Challenge period blocks**: 45,818 parent chain blocks (approximately one week).
- **Extra challenge period blocks**: 200 parent chain blocks (approximately 40 minutes).

These values offer a robust and balanced setup for most rollup use cases. Developers should consider their application’s requirements when adjusting these parameters:

> - **Shorter periods**: Suitable for applications that benefit from faster state confirmation, such as rollups prioritizing quicker exits or user withdrawals. For chains settling to Ethereum or an Arbitrum chain, this results in a reduced challenge duration based on L1 block times.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Shorter periods**: Suitable for applications that benefit from faster state confirmation, such as rollups prioritizing quicker exits or user withdrawals. For chains settling to Ethereum or an Arbitrum chain, this reduces challenge duration based on L1 block times.
```

> - **Longer periods**: Recommended for applications requiring higher security, such as cross-chain asset transfers or large-value transactions. The actual time duration depends on the parent chain’s block intervals (e.g., Ethereum vs. other chains).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Longer periods**: Recommended for applications requiring higher security, such as cross-chain asset transfers or large-value transactions. The actual duration depends on the parent chain’s block intervals (e.g., Ethereum vs. other chains).
```

---
title: 'Customizable challenge period'
description: "Learn how to customize your Orbit chain's challenge period"
author: 'mahsamoosavi'
sme: 'mahsamoosavi'
content_type: how-to
---

The challenge period defines the time frame during which state updates (assertions) submitted to the parent chain remain open for scrutiny and potential challenges before they are finalized. This mechanism ensures that participants in the system have the opportunity to verify the validity of state updates and raise challenges if necessary.

The length of the challenge period is measured based on the parent chain's notion of time, typically reflected in `block.number`. For L3s settling to Arbitrum chains, this period is determined by L1 block progression rather than Arbitrum's (L2) blocks.

In addition to the main challenge period, **an extra challenge period** provides a buffer to resolve any pending challenges after the main period ends. Together, these parameters help balance security and confirm the chain's state.

## Default challenge period and extra challenge period

:::info How time is measured in challenges

> Chains settling to Ethereum or Arbitrum chains use `block.number` for all block calculations, which corespond to the chain's view of the parent chain block number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chains settling to Ethereum or Arbitrum chains use `block.number` for all block calculations, which corespond to the chain's view of Ethereum's block number. For example, an L3 Arbitrum chain settling to Arbitrum One, will calculate block progression based on Ethereum's (L1) block number.
```

:::

> By default, the challenge period lasts approximately one week, corresponding to the parent chain’s notion of block progression. This equates to roughly 45,818 L1 blocks for chains that settle to Ethereum or an Arbitrum chain. The default duration design is to provide sufficient time for validators to detect and challenge fraudulent assertions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the challenge period lasts approximately one week, which equates to roughly 45,818 L1 blocks for chains that settle to Ethereum or an Arbitrum chain. The default duration design is to provide sufficient time for validators to detect and challenge fraudulent assertions.
```

> On the other hand, the extra challenge period adds a buffer of 200 blocks based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression. For chains settling to Ethereum or an Arbitrum chain, this corresponds to approximately 40 minutes. This time ensures that any last-minute challenges or ongoing dispute resolution processes can be completed before the rollup finalizes its state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, the extra challenge period adds a buffer of 40 minutes by default, 200 L1 blocks for chains settling to Ethereum or an Arbitrum chain. This time ensures that any last-minute challenges or ongoing dispute resolution processes can be completed before the rollup finalizes its state.
```

These default values are selected to carefully balance security and performance for most rollup use cases. However, developers and Orbit chain owners may wish to customize these parameters to suit their specific requirements.

## Customizing the challenge period

### Challenge period blocks

> The main challenge period configuration uses the `confirmPeriodBlocks` parameter, which specifies the duration of the challenge window based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression. This parameter can is customizable in two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main challenge period configuration uses the `confirmPeriodBlocks` parameter, which specifies the duration of the challenge window based on the parent chain’s notion of `block.number`. This parameter can is customizable in two ways:
```

For example, setting `confirmPeriodBlocks` to 30,000 blocks reduces the challenge period to approximately 4.5 days. This configuration might be suitable for applications prioritizing faster state confirmation, while increasing the value would extend the challenge period, improving security.

### Extra challenge period blocks

The extra challenge period is governable using the `extraChallengeTimeBlocks` parameter, which defines the additional buffer duration after the main challenge period. This period ensures that pending challenges are processed before the rollup state gets finalized.

By default, the extra challenge period is set to **200 blocks**, providing a short but sufficient buffer for most networks. However, developers can increase this value for applications requiring additional dispute resolution time or operate in environments with higher latency between the parent and child chain.

Like the main challenge period, this parameter is customizable in two ways:

1. **During deployment**: The value can be set in the `extraChallengeTimeBlocks` field of the RollupCreator configuration.

> 2. **Post-deployment**: The chain owner can dynamically adjust the parameter using the `Rollup.setExtraChallengeTimeBlocks(newExtraTimeBlocks)` function. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Post-deployment**: The chain owner can dynamically adjust the parameter using the `Rollup.setExtraChallengeTimeBlocks(newExtraTimeBlocks)` function.
```

> For example, the following command can update the extra challenge period to 300 blocks based on the parent chain’s notion of block progression:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following command can update the extra challenge period to 300 blocks based on the parent chain’s notion of `block.number`:
```

```shell
cast send <ROLLUP_ADMIN_ADDRESS> "setExtraChallengeTimeBlocks(uint256)" 300 \
  --rpc-url <RPC_URL> \
  --private-key <PRIVATE_KEY>
```

Replace:

`<ROLLUP_ADMIN_ADDRESS>` with the contract address of the rollup admin.
`<RPC_URL>` with the appropriate RPC endpoint.
`<PRIVATE_KEY>` with the private key of the authorized admin account (e.g., chain owner).

## Recommended values and best practices

For Orbit chains aligned with Arbitrum One's configuration, the recommended settings are:

> - **Challenge period blocks**: 45,818 parent chain blocks (approximately one week).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Challenge period blocks**: 45,818 Ethereum blocks (approximately one week).
```

> - **Extra challenge period blocks**: 200 parent chain blocks (approximately 40 minutes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Extra challenge period blocks**: 200 Ethereum blocks (approximately 40 minutes).
```
